Neapolitan Pizza Dough

It will make five 8-ounce doughs (227 g), or six 6-ounce doughs (170 g).

5 cups unbleached all purpose or -00- flour (22.5 oz / 638 g)

1 3/4 teaspoons table salt (0.43 oz / 12.5 g) (if using coarse kosher salt it will be closer to 2 teaspoons)

1 teaspoon instant yeast (0.11 oz / 3 g)

1 3/4 cups plus 2 tablespoons cool water, 65º F (15 oz / 425 g)

 

1.) Mix all the ingredients together in a large bowl or an electric mixer on slow speed (use the paddle attachment) for about 1 minute. Let the dough rest for 5 minutes. If using a mixer, switch to the dough hook, then continue mixing on second speed for about 2 to 4 minutes, or until the dough is smooth and supple. Add flour or water if needed.
2.) Transfer the dough to a slightly oiled work surface and hand knead for an additional minute, making any final adjustments. The dough should be tacky but not sticky and feel very supple, not stiff. Cover the dough with a bowl and let it rest for 30 minutes.
3.) Divide the dough into desired size pieces and form each piece into a ball. Place the dough balls onto a lightly oiled pan or into a dough box. Mist with pan spray and cover with plastic wrap, a large plastic bag or trash can liner, or a lid. Place the pan into a refrigerator to slowly ferment overnight. (Note: if making pizza on the same day, allow at least 6 to 8 hours in the fridge). They will keep in the refrigerator for up to three days. (You can also refrigerate the whole dough, in a covered bowl or container, and divide and ball it the next day, two hours before you plan to make the pizzas).
4.) Remove the dough balls from the refrigerator 2 hours before you plan to bake the pizza to take off the chill and make them easier to stretch. (Note: You can also freeze the dough balls by placing them each in their own freezer zip bag that has been misted with spray oil. They will keep for up to three months. Move them to the refrigerator the day before you plan to make the pizzas to slowly thaw, then treat them as refrigerated dough the next day).

After that it’s all about the pizzas. Crank your home oven up as hot as it will go, preheat the baking stone for at least 45-60 minutes, and make your favorite version of Margherita or any Napoletana pizza.